Hi, Movie Recaps here.
Today I will show you a crime, drama, thriller
film from 2019, titled Joker.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
The movie begins in Gotham City, where we
find Arthur Fleck at his company's office
getting ready to work - he's putting make-up
on because he's a party clown.
As he watches his reflection in the mirror,
he puts two fingers in his mouth and twists
it up and down a few times while a single
tear runs down his cheek.
Moments later, we find him on the street,
dancing while promoting with a sign the shop
that has hired him.
Suddenly, some kids come by and take the sign
from him, running away as soon as they have
it.
Arthur chases them through the city and finds
them waiting in an alley, where the kids proceed
to smash the sign on his head and, after he
falls to the floor, they start kicking and
punching him.
After work is done, Arthur goes to see his
therapist.
He laughs for a couple of seconds and after
he comments on how tough things are getting
out there, the therapist asks him if he's
been working on his journal.
He hands it to her, saying he's been using
it as a journal but also as a joke diary because
he's pursuing a career in stand-up comedy.
The therapist goes through the pages and finds
some upsetting words: "I just hope my death
makes more sense than my life".
She hands the journal back to Arthur and asks
him how it feels to come to these appointments,
Arthur says he felt better when he was locked
at the hospital and remembers how he used
to hit his head against his room's door.
He asks the therapist if the doctor could
increase his medication, and she points out
he's already on seven on them.
Arthur replies he doesn't want to feel bad
anymore.
Once therapy is over, Arthur takes the bus.
The kid sitting in front of him is staring,
so he starts making funny faces for him, earning
him the mother's scolding.
Arthur suddenly starts laughing and when the
mother is offended by this, he hands her a
card that explains he laughs because of a
neurological condition.
After getting off the bus, he stops by the
pharmacy to pick up his medicine before going
home.
Inside the building, he checks the mailbox
then goes up to his apartment, where he lives
with his mother Penny Fleck.
She asks him if they've gotten any mail, and
when he says no, she wonders if Thomas Wayne,
a former employer of hers, hasn't been receiving
her letters.
Arthur reminds her Wayne's a busy businessman
and urges her to eat.
After cutting up her food for her, he joins
her on the bed so they can watch the Murray
Franklin talk show together.
Arthur starts daydreaming and he imagines
himself among Franklin's public, where the
host hears him and asks him to stand up.
Arthur introduces himself and tells him how
he takes care of his mother, which Franklin
respects, so he asks him to come down; Arthur
does so as he enjoys everyone's applause.
When he makes it to Franklin's side, the host
tells him he would give up tv and fame to
have a kid like Arthur, then they hug.
Back in reality, Arthur smiles at this little
dream.
The next day at work, we can see Arthur's
body is covered in bruises.
His coworker Randall approaches him and after
telling him he's heard about the beating,
he decides to gift Arthur his gun.
Another coworker, Gary, interrupts them then
to tell Arthur their boss is looking for him.
Arthur goes to see him in his office and he's
told they've received another complaint about
him for disappearing and not returning the
sign.
Arthur explains he was robbed but his boss
doesn't believe him, because nobody would
steal a sign.
So he says he'll have to take the sign out
of his paycheck then proceeds to scold Arthur,
who stays silent and smiling.
But after that meeting is over, he goes outside
to kick a trash can in frustration.
Later that day, when going back to his apartment,
Arthur shares the elevator with his neighbor
Sophie Dumond and her daughter.
When the elevator stops for a moment, Sophie
comments the building is incredibly awful
and makes a gesture with her hand pretending
to shoot her head.
Arthur smiles and, when they make it to their
floor and get off the elevator, he returns
the shooting gesture.
Moments later, Arthur is giving Penny a bath.
She keeps on asking about the letters because
she thinks Wayne was a good man who wouldn't
like seeing them live like this, Arthur asks
her not to worry about money because his stand-up
show will make it to the big clubs soon.
Penny says she thought you had to be funny
to be a comedian.
A couple of hours later, after having put
his mother to bed, Arthur watches a movie
and practices with his new gun.
When a song begins to play on the tv, he starts
dancing to it while pretending to talk to
a girl, but he accidentally shoots the gun
and makes a hole in the wall.
His mother wakes up and asks about the noise,
he tells her it's just a war movie on tv.
The next day, Arthur follows Sophie around
town and even on public transport.
In the evening, he goes to see a stand-up
show to take some notes, which he continues
to work on when he returns to his place later,
where he writes "the worst part of having
a mental illness is people expect you to behave
as if you don't".
His writing is interrupted by the doorbell,
and Arthur opens the door to find Sophie.
She asks him if he's been following her around,
which he confirms, so she wonders if he was
going to rob her place.
He says he could do it now and she laughs
before telling him he's funny, prompting Arthur
to invite her to his stand-up show.
Sophie accepts before leaving.
The following day, Arthur is working as a
clown in a hospital, entertaining the kids.
During his performance, his gun falls to the
floor.
He hurries to pick it up and asks the children
to keep it a secret.
But later in the evening, while talking to
his boss on the phone, the man is mad about
this incident.
Arthur tries to convince him the gun was just
a prop, but his boss doesn't believe him and
tells him Randall said he tried to buy a gun
off him last week.
Arthur gets fired, and in frustration, he
hits the phonebooth glass with his head.
Afterward, he takes the subway to go home.
In the same car as him, there are three guys
in suits bothering a young woman.
When Arthur suddenly starts laughing, the
woman gets up and leaves, and one of the guys
starts singing "Send In The Clowns" as the
three of them approach him.
They take off his wig and bag, wondering why
he laughs, but when he tries to explain and
take his things back, they grab him and punch
him, then they throw him on the floor to kick
him.
This time though, Arthur defends himself:
he takes out his gun and shoots two of the
men.
The third one runs away and leaves the car
when the subway stops at the station, Arthur
follows him out and shoots him when they reach
the stairs.
As his ears start ringing, Arthur realizes
what he's done and rushes out of the station,
runs through the streets, and enters the bathrooms
of the local park.
In there, after a moment of panicking, he
dances.
Moments later, he returns to his apartment
building, knocks on Sophie's door and as soon
as she opens it, he goes inside and kisses
her.
The door closes behind them, implying they
spend the night together.
The next day, Arthur goes to his workplace
to pick up all his belongings and hears his
coworkers discuss the news of a clown shooting
three men in the subway.
They also try to offer him some words of sympathy,
including Randall, whose hypocrisy irritates
Arthur, so he tells everyone it was his gun
that did the crime.
Before leaving, Arthur hits the punch clock,
which falls to the floor and breaks.
On his way out, he sees the "don't forget
to smile" sign and crosses out two words,
transforming it into "don't smile".
Back in his apartment, after he takes his
last few pills, Arthur joins his mother to
watch tv.
Thomas Wayne is on the news because the murdered
men were employees at his company.
When the host asks him about the city's new
anti-rich sentiment, Wayne says he's considering
running for mayor to fix it, and when he's
asked about the murderer, he says it makes
sense that he had been wearing a clown mask
because he was a coward that wanted to hide
his face.
He thinks all people that do nothing with
their lives are clowns.
Some days later, Arthur is seeing his therapist
again.
He tries to tell her he finally feels like
he exists and people are started to notice,
but she interrupts him to tell him the government
has cut their funding, so this is their last
meeting.
When he asks her whom he will have to talk
to for his medication, she has nothing to
say except for an apology.
Later at night, Arthur is behind the scenes
at a bar, waiting for his turn to present
his stand-up routine.
Sophie is among the public.
When his time comes, he goes on stage and
starts laughing uncontrollably, and when he
finally manages to read some jokes from his
notebook, they fall flat.
After the show is over, he leaves the bar
with Sophie, and while they walk together,
he sees the newspapers have published a clown
face with the news of the murders, which pleases
him, especially when Sophie comments the clown
is a hero.
When a car drives by, Arthur also notices
someone is wearing a clown mask similar to
the drawings on the papers.
After having dinner with Sophie, he goes back
to his apartment, where his mother has fallen
asleep in front of the tv.
He wakes her up and sends her to bed, she
tells him she's written a new letter before
entering her room.
Arthur decides to grab the letter to read
it and finds out he's Wayne's illegitimate
son, which makes him furious with Penny.
She's afraid of his reaction so she locks
herself in the bathroom and speaks from inside,
explaining she and Wayne were in love but
they had to keep appearances, and she couldn't
say anything because she signed some papers.
The next day, Arthur is reading the newspaper
on the train and finds a picture of the Waynes,
which he tears off and saves in his notebook.
Moments later, he's visiting the Wayne mansion,
where a young Bruce Wayne is playing in the
garden.
The kid approaches the gate when Arthur comes
closer and starts performing some magic for
him, but Bruce isn't impressed.
After asking his name, Arthur reaches through
the gate and puts his fingers in Bruce's mouth
to make him smile.
They're suddenly interrupted by Alfred, who
pushes Bruce aside and threatens to call the
police.
Arthur tells him he's Penny's son and that
he wants to see Mr. Wayne because he knows
everything, Alfred replies his mother was
delusional and laughs at him.
Angry, Arthur reaches through the gates again
and tries to choke him but lets go of him
when he sees Bruce.
When he makes it home in the evening, he finds
paramedics taking his mother to the hospital,
and he gets in the ambulance to go with her.
Some hours later, while waiting outside the
hospital, Arthur is approached by two cops.
They had been talking to Penny when she had
the stroke, and now they want to interrogate
Arthur about the subway murders.
He tells them his gun was just a prop before
going back to his mom.
In the room, Sophie is keeping him company.
After she leaves, Arthur puts on the Franklin
show on tv, and he's hurt to see they're showing
clips of his stand-up routine to make fun
of him.
Later on, when he's back in his apartment,
the tv news shows that people are rioting
while wearing clown masks because Wayne called
them clowns.
Arthur decides to join these protests, and
when he gets there, he takes advantage of
a fight between cops and civilians to sneak
inside the building Wayne is currently at,
which is a movie theatre.
He steals an employee's uniform and puts it
on to access the auditorium, watching the
movie while keeping an eye on Wayne.
When he leaves the room, Arthur follows him
into the bathroom and confronts him about
Penny.
Wayne says she was crazy and he never touched
her, Arthur was actually adopted.
Arthur doesn't believe this and gets angry,
causing him to laugh; Wayne punches him for
it before leaving.
When Arthur returns to his apartment, he ignores
a call from the cops and gets inside the fridge
to spend the night in it.
The next day, he gets a call from Franklin's
production asking if he would like to appear
in the show, he obviously accepts.
Afterward, he takes the bus to the Arkham
State Hospital, where he asks for his mother's
file.
The clerk confirms she was psychotic and hurt
her child, but he can't give the file to Arthur,
so he steals it and runs away with it to read
it while hiding.
The file confirms Arthur was adopted and Penny
lied about Wayne, she also raised Arthur along
with an abusive boyfriend that got arrested
later.
Incredibly upset by this news, Arthur returns
home and enters Sophie's apartment unannounced.
When Sophie finds him, she gets scared and
asks him to leave, and as Arthur remembers
the time they spent together, we learn it
all had been his imagination.
The next day, while visiting Penny, he tells
her his life is a comedy and not a tragedy
before suffocating her with a pillow.
Later on, Arthur is at his place getting ready
for the show.
After practicing what he's going to say, he
dyes his hair green and starts applying his
make-up, but he's interrupted by the doorbell.
He grabs a pair of scissors and hides them
in his pants before opening the door to find
Gary and Randall, who come to visit him after
hearing of Penny's death.
Randall is worried because the cops have been
interrogating clowns and Arthur has his gun,
Arthur responds by stabbing him with the scissors
and punching him.
Gary freaks out and wants to leave, Arthur
lets him go without hurting him because he
was the only one that was ever nice to him.
After changing into a new suit, Arthur leaves
for the show, and he's found by the cops on
the street.
He starts running away and enters the subway,
which is filled with people going to the protests
with clown masks.
The cops follow him there, jumping from car
to car, and when Arthur steals a clown mask
from a guy, he causes a fight to start.
Amidst all this confusion, the cops accidentally
shoot a civilian, so when the subway stops
at the station, everyone is jumping on the
officers, allowing Arthur to escape unnoticed.
Moments later, he makes it to the studio.
While waiting in the dressing room, Franklin
comes by to check on him and ask him for a
clean show.
Arthur accepts and promises his clown make-up
isn't political, he also asks to be introduced
as "Joker".
Soon afterward, he's called to the stage,
which he enters dancing.
After kissing another guest and reassuring
them once more that his make-up is not political,
he tries to tell a joke about death, which
he's scolded for, then he admits being the
subway killer because he has nothing left
to lose.
After a long speech about the system failing
the little people and how Franklin is the
same for having brought him to the show to
make fun of him, Arthur shoots him on camera.
After the transmission is cut off, Arthur
is arrested by the cops.
While being taken away in a police car, he
sees all the riots in the streets with people
wearing clown masks.
He's calling it all beautiful when the car
is suddenly hit by an ambulance, knocking
him out.
The protester that had been driving the ambulance
comes out and finds Arthur, so with the help
of other mask-wearers, they take him out of
the car and put him on top of the hood.
Meanwhile, in another part of town, the Waynes
are leaving a theater when a protester follows
them.
After telling Wayne he deserves it, he shoots
him and his wife, leaving little Bruce alone
with the bodies of his parents.
Back to Arthur, he's now waking up and finding
the protesters clapping and whooping for him,
so Arthur stands up on top of the car to do
a little dance for them.
When he notices the blood coming out of his
nose, he uses it to draw a bigger smile around
his mouth.
Days later, we find Arthur has been sent to
the Arkham State Hospital.
While the therapist checks on him, he starts
laughing, so she asks him what's so funny,
but he replies she wouldn't get it and starts
singing "That's life".
The movie ends when, a moment afterward, Arthur
is seen leaving the room and dancing in the
hallway, leaving bloody footprints behind.